He was on the second floor of the YMCA building. And
Rutter was in the Koch building,
I guess, yeah, I guess through my senior year and
then it was the next year that he moved up to the
administration building because he became
president of both the system and the college. As
far as an undergraduate student in those days was
concerned, who was the most active student
administrator? Was it Dean Hannigan or was it the
core commandant? I'd say as a student
administrator, I would have listed Hannigan. The
commandant was strictly business, core
business. I don't think you would have gone there
for a general purpose. I wouldn't have. Now, they
had attack officers part of that time, and a man
named Calvin Reese, class of 49, was one of those.
He was also the drill team advisor, and he was
absolutely my mentor and is why I graduated, and
very close contact, you know, forever with him.
Describe him, then. Well, he was a captain in the
Air Force Reserve,
had kind of a very soft family farm kind of look and
attitude, soft spoken. not formal in military
appearance, just extremely polite, extremely
caring, but would listen and listen and listen and
listen and let you come out with anything you
wanted to come out with. And because of the Drill
Team Connect, you know, I started going home for
supper and Practically grew up with his young kids
and just became a very major figure. Was totally
influential in my finally having enough grade
points to graduate. Did he give you some important
advice? If so, summarize it. I can't verbally,
nothing strikes me immediately, but what I got out
of him was a soft mentoring relationship, role
model of doing what's right, and no
pretentiousness. at all. Were you aware of that
impression then? I was then and have seen it better
as time goes along. Right. That first year, how did
you register for classes and what was your? You
went through Sabisa Dining Hall and I think they,
my memory is as a senior, I worked for housing or the
Corps or somebody. And I was at one of the central
tables where everybody had to go through, hand in
something or collect something, I don't know
what. And I'd just got my senior ring at the start of
the fall of my senior year, first week in
September. And of course, reversed, it meant that
the star was on the inside where your little finger
is. Well, I'd had it three days or something. I
shook hands with every single person that came
through there. At the end of the day, the star was
embedded in my little finger, and it wasn't
perfectly clear to me if it was going to ever come
out. But, you know, you just lined up behind
placards and saw some, you know, old guy named
Monroe teaching history, and you wished that you
could get in his class instead of Garland
Bayless's class. But I wasn't so lucky. And I hope
Garland hears this. What was your major? Do you
remember that first year? I started pre-law, and
then I went management, graduated management.
Dan Lowe helped me graduate. Who were some of those
first, in the first year, who were some of the
instructors you can remember? Oh, I don't know
about the first year. I think Garland was my
history prof. There was a man named Clark who was
biology.
Were there some courses that quickly y'all were
warned to stay clear of? Some tough. I wasn't
warned enough.
I got all those classes. And what did the routine
seem like at A&M compared to what you had known at
San Jacinto High School? It was busy, very busy. I
wasn't a good student in high school. But I
probably studied zero in high school. And so even
at A&M you had to study some. I studied very little.
I was excellent at procrastinating and thinking
that I would do something and staying busy doing
other things. Right, so you left school and then
came back in the fall of 60, actually it was the
spring of 63. 63. Made out a year and a half. Okay.
And had, I don't remember how many, I had at least 15
or 20 hours or something that I transferred from
the University of Houston. And, you know, I hung
around a sea from that point. As a result of being
away for three semesters, was there any core
identifier? Zero. Okay. I've heard of frogs being
transfers. Well, but the key was I finished the
entire freshman year. Okay. And so I wouldn't...
Most people, there are a few people that know now,
but most of the people in Class 65 assumed that I had
been with them all the way. But a lot of guys in 64,
while I was in school, knew that I had been with
them. And it wasn't said very often, but I think I
had a slightly different status. And then because
of the relationship with Calvin Reese, At the
start of that spring semester, they had lost one or
two sophomore advisors to the drill team. And so I
just became a sophomore advisor, one of three or
four people. And then I was plugged back in again.
And then lo and behold, the next year, I was the only
junior advisor and then the only senior advisor.
And you made the decision to identify with 65
instead of 64. Yes. Well, it was sort of Reese's
advice and the Commandant's advice. But I mean,
you could have done the... Yeah, you could have
probably gone back to F2, but you'd have been out of
whack, I think. Like I learned to my pleasant
surprise from Porter Garner, Jr., that he, in the
class of 45, was one of those that left early. You
remember they went on trimester and all. He never
came back. and did not have quite enough hours to
officially be a senior, but that because they were
shipped out early, their entire group was given
their senior rings, and that he never graduated. I
had no problems. You know, I knew... I knew Frank
Mueller, who was our student body president, was
still very active, distinguished alumnus. I knew
Ted Hopgood, who I hired as commandant to come back
here. And
there were just never any problems. I've been a
co-class agent for Class of 65 for 10 years with
Mueller and Bill Gimmons. And it's worked.
For my personality and what I was doing, I think I
had an advantage. What were the great advantages
of being a senior in those days in the Corps?
You had whatever freedom you needed or wanted as
related to what you were doing with your personal
time. You had the whatever ROTC or core functions
things to do, but you basically had your own space
in which to do that. It wasn't as common back then,
but I wore my boots virtually every day, you know,
that that was just something, you know, I was drill
team, and so I think that, you know, I wore the
uniform pretty well, and so that was something
that I did most of the time. Where'd you get your
boots, and how much did they cost? They were
Horlicks boots, and I don't know where we got the
$95, but we got the $95. Do you still have them?
Still have them. Mother kept them, and so now I have
them back. The Aggie ring was $32.50. And the myth
existed then as it still exists that former
students pays for half the rain. And as far as I
know, it's untrue. But that's what people think.
And you, like many of the rest of us, were not
blessed with great family wealth. About how much
extra spending money did you have in those student
days? I went to school for $500 a semester. About
$450 was room, board, tuition, books. So I had $50
spending money. And then I was on contract, so I got
$25 a month. And so that was all foo-foo money. I got
$20 a month from my father in the divorce
situation. And I didn't have a car. I didn't have
any vehicles. So I was riding with people. And I
don't remember. I was pinching pennies, but I
don't remember having a problem. Where did you and
your buddies go if you wanted to have a good time?
You mean away? Well, most of the time we would go
back home. We'd go to Houston. I had buddies that
were in Houston. If you were going to stay here in
the Brazos County area, where was a good Friday
night or Saturday? You would just go to the show and
go eat and tell stories. Where would you eat? There
would be occasional beer busts on the Brazos
River, but I I graduated from Texas A&M without
having to drink beer, and it was okay that I didn't
go to the beer bust. And so I usually did not go. Were
people going to the clay pits when you were? That's
basically the way I knew it. And as far as you know,
where was that? I'd be danged if I know. I don't
know. I'm not sure. Did you ever go to Uncle Ed's?
No. Was it still going then? Hard Liquor's? I'm not
sure those were still going. I think Ralph's Pizza
Place was going. I didn't go to those places.
Sparky's, was it there yet? I didn't drink beer, so
I didn't go. And I didn't have the money to do
anything extra, so I didn't go. In your outfit, as
far as you knew, was there much alcohol in the
dormitory? I have no significant recall of that.
You couldn't say no, that there wasn't any. But if
there was, it would have been probably hard liquor
because refrigeration and all those issues.
Everybody didn't have an icebox, a little
refrigerator. Did you and your colleagues even
know the terminology of drugs? I didn't. I don't
think so. I don't think in the early 60s any of us Had
heard of heroin and so forth. Not really. And so
folks smoked cigarettes? Yeah, a lot of people
smoked cigarettes. Cigars a little?
Occasionally. I didn't smoke. Did anybody smoke a
pipe? Occasionally. Yeah, I can remember a couple
of guys that smoked a pipe. I had some juniors next
to me when I was a fish that smoked a pipe, and it
smelled good.
In all of your undergraduate days, who were some of
the memorable teachers, advisors? Well, I've
already talked about Calvin Reese and James
Hannigan. Denzel Baker was a good person. He was
commandant. I knew Charlie Hornstein, who was a
tech officer. I knew Bill Presnell.
The Dan Lowe was the assistant dean of the College
of Business and was like the typical style of the
associate dean in those days in the 60s and to about
mid 70s that there were very few rules written and
they would cut you slack if they thought that you
were deserving of it, and would work with you to get
over whatever humps were there. I think they were
very listening, very empathetic,
stick to a rule if they thought it was right, but
bend it a little bit if they thought that was right.
And it didn't take a lot of pressure You know, that
would happen, I think, with an individual student
talking to them. You know, Mother didn't call, you
know, in the 60s. There wasn't anybody ringing
anybody's phone in the 60s. It was the student
talking to the, and so you needed people that would
listen to the student. Among my concern, I don't
know. Beckham, John Beckham. Describe. People
like that. Did you know John? I knew John. Describe
him. A tall, professional-looking professor,
very professorial, with that huge, booming
voice. Incredible, deep, booming voice. Did the
students give him a nickname? I don't remember.
Because I've always thought it should have been
Daddy Deep Throat. Yeah. I don't remember. Did you
take a course from him? How did you get acquainted
with him? Well, I know I knew him after I came back
here in 68 very well. I don't recall for sure as a
student. Because, see, I knew him at church and
then. working registration, he was always one of
the... Judge Stewart was a prof, taught law, you
know, was reported to be an alcoholic or had
alcoholic problems, but was also reported to be
the quality of lawyer of Percy Forman, you know,
who was a major, very major lawyer, national
scope, you know, during that time period in the
60s.
And his classes were usually colorful and
interesting, you know, very interesting. There
was a guy named Satch Elkins who taught over there.
George Rice, who was also very helpful to me in
graduating, who taught management. So you
changed business. Was that your major? From
pre-law. From pre-law. Yeah, I'd stayed in
business after. I think I only changed the once.
Mm-hmm. Let's see, anybody in English you recall?
Well, you remember
the little quiet gentleman. Cofer? No, the little
guy that lived to be pretty elderly, was around
here well into his 80s, little bitty guy. Not Tommy
Mayo. No. He was involved in Opus, very
soft-spoken, white-headed.
We'll think of his name when we edit it. It'll hit me
in a minute. Well, it'll come back. What about
math?
No, I didn't have any good math profs. And you
mentioned Garland. You had history. I think I had
Garland for history. Garland. Goveron? I don't
remember. No Blue Book Benton? No, I didn't have
Blue Book Benton. I think the guy's name was
Luther. He was in economics. I had ECO 311 with him.
He was hard. I would say now I think he was fair, but
he appeared to be very hard. So your major
extracurricular activity was the drill team. As
far as you were aware, what were the expected rules
of classroom conduct and behavior at A&M? Go to
class, be polite,
take notes. Was the grading fair? No. I think it
was. We were on the three-point system, which I
think is pretty significant, because a 69 was an F.
And I think an 83 was a C. So it would be different. I
wouldn't have had my same level of grade point
problems if a D had even given you one grade point.
It wouldn't have been quite as tight. And so it
wasn't hard to get an F. I didn't have the feeling
that they did much curving. How did you and your
buddies feel about those changes that came in the
mid-60s regarding compulsory core, racial
integration, co-education, and so forth? You
know, on the surface, it was like, oh, gee, this is,
you know, a new army. You know, you sort of would
like for it to not happen. And I remember we, you
know, I think we marched on General Rutter's house
twice for both decisions. And, you know, it was
after Chow and Duncan. And he came out on the front
porch and said, thank you for your advice and go
home. And everybody saluted and said, you know,
yes, sir. And that was it. The riot was over. But I
don't remember great animosity. It was certainly
conversation. Neil Keltner was a corps commander
and was somebody that I knew and bumped into
occasionally. And he was going to Austin with
Rutter regularly, you know, that legislative
session in representing the issues. And so I knew
that that was happening. Which of the changes
caused the greatest concern? Was it the corps or
women? Frankly, women was first, so I think I would
say women. And then core, you're already, you
know, you're right on the edge of the Vietnam
business, getting ready to fire up pretty big. I
don't think people realized the full impact of the
decision right at that minute. Do you remember any
event relating to the admission of black
students? I don't. I remember seeing a couple of
those first guys in the early 60s, but I don't
remember it ever being an issue. I don't remember a
single incident. I don't know of any. That was
handled with great... I believe A&M did that as
well as any school in the country. I'm unaware of it
ever being an issue. Of course, there weren't very
many of them. No, but still, it happened gradually
and happened with great... Well, as it turns out,
the Corps was essentially first in going female,
too. You know, after that decision was made, they
went female in 74. And only the last three years has
VMI and the Citadel gone that way. And the military
academies were after 74. So we were really first in
that regard. It still struggled a long time, and
there's always some bumps. But as far as saying,
yeah, it's the right thing to do, that was done
pretty quickly. And I've learned in these
interviews that one of the things that Earl Rutter
told Ford Albritton and John Lindsay on a trip to
Chicago when they asked, well, what do we do if
something happens to you, Earl? And he first said,
well, I don't have anybody, and I've got to do that.
That night they brought the subject back up. And he
said, I've been thinking about it since you
brought it up this afternoon. If something ever
happened to me, you go to Tennessee and you get Jack
Williams, first commissioner of higher
education. And among the things he reminded him of
is that he was at Clemson, a separate land-grant
school in the South. When the changes were made.
When the changes were made. And he went through
that so he would be able to understand the culture
here more clearly than most people would. Well,
after graduation... I had two years of active
duty. I was fortunate enough to be in Germany. I was
in armor. And I was almost literally, I was one of
the last 15 guys to go to Europe instead of Vietnam.
And then you had almost no one, you know, go to
Europe for a couple of years. And the good news of
that was we had 10 officers when you're supposed to
have 32 in an armor battalion. And as a second
lieutenant, I was the only staff officer
officially, the adjutant. And then as a first
lieutenant, I was headquarters company
commander, which was the hardest job because you
had all the wild people. But had tremendous
experience, but did decide to get out. And my
mentor, Calvin Reese, was leaving. We were
corresponding, writing. And he said, I think
General Rudder will give you my job if you want it.
And of course, when you change your mind and you're
in Germany, a job sounds like a really good plan. So
it's just like, yeah. So I wrote the letter. They
said, you know, touch base as soon as you get back
and there might be an opening. And I already knew
Hannigan and I already knew Rutter. And they said,
fine, you know, you're hired. You got to reach this
job. I was leaving every year. you know, for four or
five years. It was, I was on staff. The nature of the
job that I had in the commandant's office, I was the
yell leader, bonfire, fish drill team, Ross
volunteer, all extra duty advisor. Colonel McCoy
was the commandant. He didn't, He didn't like
going to any university committee meetings. And I
was somehow, at age 25, I was his senior university
person over there. And so I was going to meetings I
didn't have any business being at. But it proved to
be extremely beneficial to me. And so I saw General
Rutter pretty often. I saw Hannigan often. The
associate deans I talked about. You know, the
Beckhams and Potts and Ransdells and Lowe's and
all those people were just, you know, I saw how good
they were, and I was on the AOC and a lot of things.
And Dan Lowe died young, but the very first year or
so, he called me one day and said, I think he, the
student was either with me or he was sending the
student to see me. Or I was sending him to see him, I
don't remember which. But anyway, we were talking
and he said, I was telling him about this guy and
it's like, you know, he needs a little help, you
know, to graduate. And he said, well, I think I knew
somebody else like that. Yes, I think you did.
Well, are you telling me that you think this is the
guy that I should do this for over anybody else?
Yes, sir. I think I am. I think it'd be all right.
Then you tell him to come see me and he will
graduate.
Okay.
I will. All right. Back in those days, you're
student days and your early days as a member of the
professional staff, describe the activities of
the MSC. What role did it play? I was never heavily
connected to the MSC. I was heavily connected to
all the core things. I knew who Stark was, but I
never had any personal relationships with him. He
mostly had under his wing the real bright stars.
You know, the Corps Commander, student body
president level people, people that could go to
Harvard and Stanford and things like that, which
we didn't have a big group. What was his pipeline to
that connection? Former students. No, no, no, no,
no. To get contact with those bright... Major
student activities. You know, the major chiefs.
Because I have the impression that he started
identifying them first year they were here. And he
got them... He may have. Kind of lined up and got
them. Because it seemed to me that if you were... It
had to be activities outside of the Corps. He
wasn't going to identify you only because of Corps
activities. You've had to show up somewhere else.
With the possible exception of a Corps commander
or somebody. He would still have known who those
people were. It seemed to me that he would, in
identifying, when he heard about a bright
freshman, he would try to get that freshman to be
the errand runner for the MSC council president or
the SCONA chairman or the president of the student
body and then that student would learn the ropes
and they would work up and sometime later might
have the same task. And all those processes, by
today's standards, are very formalized. And the
students do it with hundreds of students. Yes. Was
the YMCA, was it active? in your day? Yeah. What
went on there? Logan Weston and Gay, Gordon Gay.
What did the, what happened at the one? Mostly the
reason you knew them is they had steak fries, you
know, at Hensel Park. And it was kind of a real thin
kind of chicken fried steak like thing but they
there's no telling how many thousands of steaks
that they cook at various functions or outfit
functions or whatever whatever you wanted there
was somebody you could go talk to of course it had
that little gym up there before it was renovated in
79 and in the old days before the MSC it was the had
the swimming pool and the bowling alley, and it
really was the student center from it being built
until the MSC was built. Now, Mr. Cashin had
already died, hadn't he? I didn't know him. I don't
remember him. The folks older than you and I I've
chatted with remember him. H.L. Heaton was the
registrar. Describe Mr. Heaton from your
experiences. An interesting little man that
seemed very business-like,
in a hurry, lots to do, kind of fidgety, I think, but
would do whatever he was polite.
And when the general gave him an order, he followed
it. Well, as far as I know, they all did that. Yes,
but he particularly, I think, was... Like I know
privately, he said in my presence more than once,
over my dead body will we ever have black students
here. Mr. Rudder told him to check the credentials
of all of those first black active duty enlisted
men that were coming here to finish their degree to
be sure that they were in the right courses. He
didn't want them to have to stand in line at Sabisa
because there could be an incident there. for
Heaton to get them in the right courses, then call
each instructor and tell them that when they met
their first class, those students were supposed
to be there. Mr. Heaton. Yes, sir. And he did it.
What was Guyon Hole? What role did it play? Well, it
was a gorgeous old building. It was where you went
to see old movies and the like. It was very
dilapidated. When I came back was when they tore it
down to start this facility over here. And the
architects screwed up. They should have kept
those columns. Yes, yes, yes. The front facade
could have been, by today's standards, you would
have saved it for sure.